Electro-mechanical systems inevitably fail during use.  Failures during
operation typically cause system halts.  This is particularly hazardous to
robots that require feedback to balance such as biped humanoid robots.  For
biped humanoids these errors typically include, but are not limited to,
actuator failure due to over torque or loss of zero-moment-point
(ZMP) \cite{zmp35} causing a robot fall or collapse.  This is exceptionally
harmful to adult size humanoid robots due to their weight.  It is key for the
robot to recognize when it is entering a failure state and be able move to a
safe running state.  This paper focuses on way of automatically detecting when
a failure is about to occur and choosing the proper mitigation technique.

Current methods of mitigation of ZMP loss for biped humanoids been investigated
by Kiyoshi Fujiwara et al. \cite{4115653}.  These methods involve finding an
optimal falling trajectory that reduces the instantaneous force of the robot at
impact by creating multiple impact stages\cite{4399327}.  This method was fully
tested on an HRP-2FX (HRP-2P surrogate) and partially on an HRP-2P.  This work
did not include a method of determining a falling state, it is assumed that a
fall is in progress.  Additional work on detecting a fall and reducing fall
damage has been shown by Kunihiro Ogata et al.\cite{4755950}.  An active
shock-reducing motion reduces the impact damage by following the center of
gravity (COG) and attempting to keep it close to the ZMP support polygon.  The
falling state is determined when the predicted ZMP departs from the support
polygon. This method was tested on a miniature humanoid robot.  Additional work
on determining a fall state using machine learning techniques\cite{4813885}.
Reimund Renner et al. used parameter estimation of multiple sensors to detect a
falling state\cite{4058847}.

These methods are able to detect a specific fault state, however a need of
detecting different fault states requires more general methods.  These methods
must include monitoring not only sensor data but also actuator failure status.
